about.md, before:

---
layout : page
title : Harisankar B
permalink : /
---

I am currently a 3rd year Integrated MSc student at the National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER), majoring in **Mathematics** with a keen interest in **Computer Science**.

---

## Academic Interests

I am particularly fascinated by **theoretical computer science** and machine learning, with a keen interest in exploring how these fields overlap with **complexity theory**, **formal methods**, **logic**, and **graph theory**. My current focus lies in automated theorem proving, especially using tools like [_LEAN_](https://leanprover-community.github.io/).

---

## Relevant Courses

- **Mathematics**: Real Analysis, Linear Algebra, Discrete Mathematics, Group Theory, Probability Theory, Metric Spaces, Differential Equations, Multivariate Calculus, Rings and Modules
- **Computer Science**: Data Structures and Algorithms, Theory of Computation, Discrete Structures and Computation, Design and Analysis of Algorithms

---

## Skills

- **Programming Languages**: Python, JavaScript
- **Machine Learning and AI**: Pytorch, Tenserflow, Scikit-learn
- **Tools and Frameworks**: Mathematica, LaTeX, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Obsidian, Notion
- **Web Development**: HTML, CSS, Flask, React, Django
- **Music**: Violinist with an interest in both classical and contemporary music

---

## Projects

 - **Problem Of The Week Platform**: Developed a website that hosts weekly competitive programming problems, complete with automated leaderboard management. It fosters coding engagement within the community and helps track progress. [Check out the project on GitHub](https://sdgniser.github.io/problem-of-the-week)

- **Switcheroo Website**: Developed a Flask-based web server that facilitates a unique coding event where teams collaborate by switching systems and solving problems together. The app integrates a timer and scoring system. [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/Methaphur/switcheroo).

- **Event Management**: Building an event scheduling system that integrates with Google Calendar to avoid scheduling conflicts. Plans include a publicly accessible Event Calendar for NISER clubs with features like color-coded events and a Jekyll-based frontend.
[Check out the project on GitHub](https://sdgniser.github.io/event-management)

- **Timetable Generator (WIP)**: Designing a system to minimize course conflicts using algorithmic techniques like constraint satisfaction and graph coloring. The project also integrates scheduling algorithms to assist clubs in planning events without overlaps, offering an optimal solution for time management at NISER.

- **Competition Website (WIP)**: Developing a coding competition platform using Django and React. This platform serves students at NISER for coding practice and competitive programming. Leaderboards, point tracking, and team participation are included. [Check out the project on GitHub](https://github.com/sugar-syrup/NiserCodeLab).

---

## Publication

**Harisankar Binod**, T. Shithij, A. Tichy, and S. Mishra. *Artificial Intelligence in Oral Health*. In: **Artificial Intelligence for Oral Health Care: Applications and Future Prospects**, eds. F. Schwendicke, P.K. Chaudhari, K. Dhingra, S.E. Uribe, M. Hamdan. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 2025, pp. 1–21. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84047-0_1](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84047-0_1)

---

## Internship – Summer 2023

During the summer of 2023, I completed an internship under the guidance of [**Subhankar Mishra**](https://niser.ac.in/~smishra/), where I worked on a research project related to **Artificial Intelligence in Oral Health**. My contributions led to the development of a **book chapter** that explores the applications of AI in improving diagnosis, treatment, and patient care within dentistry.

This experience allowed me to explore the interdisciplinary connections between AI and healthcare, particularly how machine learning models assist in predicting and diagnosing oral health issues.

---

## Extracurricular Activities

I am an active core member of both the **MathematiX Club** and the **Coding Club** at NISER. Below are some of my roles and contributions:

- **Code N Cffee**: Organized weekly coding sessions where students gather to solve problems, discuss algorithms, and learn new programming concepts. 

- **Switcheroo Coding Event**: Organized the event, developed the competition website, and ensured its smooth execution. More details about the event can be found [here](https://www.niser.ac.in/~smishra/event/2022sdg/switcheroo.html).

- **Pi Day Celebration 2024**: Organized the Pi Day event as part of the Mathematix Club, engaging participants in math-related activities like puzzles, quizzes, and talks.

- **SUMS/SRS/AXIOM**: Organized many takjs ithin in the club and also participated in the events. 


---

## Achievements

- **Organizer**: Successfully organized events such as Switcheroo and Pi Day, promoting engagement in coding and mathematics within the NISER community.
- **Projects**: Developed various web apps and tools that enhanced the collaboration and learning experience for students at NISER.

---

## Community Involvement

As the **Head of the Coding Club** at NISER, I organize events, oversee all activities, and plan initiatives that promote coding and technology. I am also a core member of the **MathematiX Club**, where I help foster a love for mathematics through events and competitions.

---

## Personal Interests

Outside of academics, I enjoy playing the **violin** and listening to a wide range of music.

---

## Contact

Feel free to connect with me to discuss mathematics, computer science, or related topics!

- **Email**: [harisankar.b@niser.ac.in](mailto:harisankar.b@niser.ac.in)
- **Personal Email**: [harisankarbinodss@gmail.com](mailto:harisankarbinodss@gmail.com)
- **LinkedIn**: [Harisankar B](https://www.linkedin.com)
- **GitHub**: [Methaphur](https://github.com/Methaphur)

Commit message:

added QR Scanner Project and Mess Menu

about.md, after:

---
layout : page
title : Harisankar B
permalink : /
---

I am currently a 3rd year Integrated MSc student at the National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER), majoring in **Mathematics** with a keen interest in **Computer Science**.

---

## Academic Interests

I am particularly fascinated by **theoretical computer science** and machine learning, with a keen interest in exploring how these fields overlap with **complexity theory**, **formal methods**, **logic**, and **graph theory**. My current focus lies in automated theorem proving, especially using tools like [_LEAN_](https://leanprover-community.github.io/).

---

## Relevant Courses

- **Mathematics**: Real Analysis, Linear Algebra, Discrete Mathematics, Group Theory, Probability Theory, Metric Spaces, Differential Equations, Multivariate Calculus, Rings and Modules
- **Computer Science**: Data Structures and Algorithms, Theory of Computation, Discrete Structures and Computation, Design and Analysis of Algorithms

---

## Skills

- **Programming Languages**: Python, JavaScript
- **Machine Learning and AI**: Pytorch, Tenserflow, Scikit-learn
- **Tools and Frameworks**: Mathematica, LaTeX, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Obsidian, Notion
- **Web Development**: HTML, CSS, Flask, React, Django
- **Music**: Violinist with an interest in both classical and contemporary music

---

## Projects

- **QR Coupon for Event Management**: A simple, lightweight website designed to send QR codes for event participation to users via email using Google Apps Script. Event organizers can verify these codes through a static webpage, streamlining check-ins and participation tracking. [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/Methaphur/QR-Coupon-Scanner)

 - **Problem Of The Week Platform**: Developed a website that hosts weekly competitive programming problems, complete with automated leaderboard management. It fosters coding engagement within the community and helps track progress. [Github Repo](https://sdgniser.github.io/problem-of-the-week)

- **Switcheroo Website**: Developed a Flask-based web server that facilitates a unique coding event where teams collaborate by switching systems and solving problems together. The app integrates a timer and scoring system. [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/Methaphur/switcheroo).

- **NISER Mess Menu Website**: Developed a website for the NISER mess that displays the weekly menu in an organized and visually appealing format. The menu is uploaded by mess staff through Google Forms, and the site automatically fetches and presents the data for easy access by students. [View Website](https://methaphur.github.io/messmenu/)

- **Event Management**: Building an event scheduling system that integrates with Google Calendar to avoid scheduling conflicts. Plans include a publicly accessible Event Calendar for NISER clubs with features like color-coded events and a Jekyll-based frontend.
[Github Repo](https://sdgniser.github.io/event-management)

- **Timetable Generator (WIP)**: Designing a system to minimize course conflicts using algorithmic techniques like constraint satisfaction and graph coloring. The project also integrates scheduling algorithms to assist clubs in planning events without overlaps, offering an optimal solution for time management at NISER.

- **Competition Website (WIP)**: Developing a coding competition platform using Django and React. This platform serves students at NISER for coding practice and competitive programming. Leaderboards, point tracking, and team participation are included. [Check out the project on GitHub](https://github.com/sugar-syrup/NiserCodeLab).

---

## Publication

**Harisankar Binod**, T. Shithij, A. Tichy, and S. Mishra. *Artificial Intelligence in Oral Health*. In: **Artificial Intelligence for Oral Health Care: Applications and Future Prospects**, eds. F. Schwendicke, P.K. Chaudhari, K. Dhingra, S.E. Uribe, M. Hamdan. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, 2025, pp. 1–21. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84047-0_1](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-84047-0_1)

---

## Internship – Summer 2025

During the summer of 2025, I participated in the Summer Research Program at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc), Chennai, under the guidance of [**Dr. Meena Mahajan**](https://www.imsc.res.in/~meena/), Professor at the Theoretical Computer Science (TCS) group, IMSc. My work focused on **Automated Reasoning**, where I explored topics in **formal logic**, experimented with **LEAN**, and delved into **automated theorem proving**. This internship deepened my understanding of the theoretical foundations of computer science and their applications in formal verification and proof automation.

## Internship – Summer 2023

During the summer of 2023, I completed an internship under the guidance of [**Subhankar Mishra**](https://niser.ac.in/~smishra/), where I worked on a research project related to **Artificial Intelligence in Oral Health**. My contributions led to the development of a **book chapter** that explores the applications of AI in improving diagnosis, treatment, and patient care within dentistry.

This experience allowed me to explore the interdisciplinary connections between AI and healthcare, particularly how machine learning models assist in predicting and diagnosing oral health issues.

---

## Extracurricular Activities

I am an active core member of both the **MathematiX Club** and the **Coding Club** at NISER. Below are some of my roles and contributions:

- **Code N Cffee**: Organized weekly coding sessions where students gather to solve problems, discuss algorithms, and learn new programming concepts. 

- **Switcheroo Coding Event**: Organized the event, developed the competition website, and ensured its smooth execution. More details about the event can be found [here](https://www.niser.ac.in/~smishra/event/2022sdg/switcheroo.html).

- **Pi Day Celebration 2024**: Organized the Pi Day event as part of the Mathematix Club, engaging participants in math-related activities like puzzles, quizzes, and talks.

- **SUMS/SRS/AXIOM**: Organized many takjs ithin in the club and also participated in the events. 


---

## Achievements

- **Organizer**: Successfully organized events such as Switcheroo and Pi Day, promoting engagement in coding and mathematics within the NISER community.
- **Projects**: Developed various web apps and tools that enhanced the collaboration and learning experience for students at NISER.

---

## Community Involvement

As the **Head of the Coding Club** at NISER, I organize events, oversee all activities, and plan initiatives that promote coding and technology. I am also a core member of the **MathematiX Club**, where I help foster a love for mathematics through events and competitions.

---

## Personal Interests

Outside of academics, I enjoy playing the **violin** and listening to a wide range of music.

---

## Contact

Feel free to connect with me to discuss mathematics, computer science, or related topics!

- **Email**: [harisankar.b@niser.ac.in](mailto:harisankar.b@niser.ac.in)
- **Personal Email**: [harisankarbinodss@gmail.com](mailto:harisankarbinodss@gmail.com)
- **LinkedIn**: [Harisankar B](https://www.linkedin.com)
- **GitHub**: [Methaphur](https://github.com/Methaphur)
